this hillside is jam-packed with
macaroni penguins and virtually nothing
else there are some 80,000 of them here
but even this vast assemblage is only a
tiny proportion of the total population
of South Georgia which is estimated to
be more than 10 million some astonishing
demonstration of the pack but what where
the Antarctica's virtually lifeless over
vast areas that are one or two smaller
aces the team
after spending the winter wandering
around the northern fringes of the
southern ocean the macaronis returned
with remarkable punctuality in just 10
days the terraces of this empty stadium
become packed tight the male's come
first the females a week later the
macaroni is very much the penguin of the
northern rim of the Antarctic very few
of them venture farther south than these
sub-antarctic Islands but here they
constitute over 50% of all the seabirds
at the moment at the beginning of the
breeding season they're squabbling
noisily as each pair fights to hold its
own tiny nest site each new arrival has
to make its way through a barrage of
pecks from outraged most owners
macaronis must be the noisiest the most
bad-tempered of all penguins and
sometimes the fights can be really
vicious
eventually female finds her male and is
rewarded with a grecian display and a
comforting preen
ten days later she has produced two eggs
but remarkably one of them
the darker smaller one is nearly always
abandoned why is not certain it may
perhaps be an insurance against the loss
of the bigger one